JUDY WOODRUFF: The escalation
of President Trump's criticism
of Jeff Sessions exposes
a rare public divide between
an American president
and his attorney general.
Jeffrey Brown reports.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States: I'm disappointed
in the attorney general.
He shouldn't have
recused himself.
JEFFREY BROWN: The
president's latest salvo
came this afternoon,
at his news conference
with Lebanon's prime minister.
That followed a morning
broadside on Twitter, declaring:
"Attorney General Jeff Sessions
has taken a very weak
position on Hillary Clinton
crimes and intel leakers."
And, yesterday, another
tweet that called
Sessions "our beleaguered
A.G." and plaintively
asked why he's not
investigating Hillary Clinton.
So, what is next?
The president said this today:
DONALD TRUMP: I want
the attorney general
to be much tougher on
leaks from intelligence
agencies.
We will see what happens.
Time will tell.
JEFFREY BROWN: Sessions
was a veteran Republican
senator from Alabama,
and in early 2016 became
the first in that body to
endorse the Trump candidacy.
After he won, president-elect
Trump nominated him
as attorney general.
But less than a month after
Sessions' confirmation,
it emerged that,
despite earlier denials,
he had, in fact, met with
the Russian ambassador
during the campaign.
JEFF SESSIONS, U.S. Attorney
General: I shouldn't be involved
in any campaign investigation.
JEFFREY BROWN: In early March,
Sessions he recused himself from
Russia-related investigations,
a decision still angers the
president, as he made clear to
The New York Times last week.
DONALD TRUMP: How do you take a
job, and then recuse yourself?
If he would have recused
himself before the job, I would
have said, thanks, Jeff, but
I can't -- I'm not
going to take you.
It's extremely unfair,
and that's a mild
word, to the president.
JEFFREY BROWN: The next
day, Sessions said he
has no plans to resign.
JEFF SESSIONS: We love this job.
We love this department.
And I plan to continue to do so
as long as that is appropriate.
JEFFREY BROWN: The attorney
general has not been heard from
since, but several Republican
senators have rallied to
their former colleague.
Today, South Carolina's Lindsey
Graham called the president's
rebuke of Sessions for not
prosecuting Hillary Clinton
highly inappropriate.
And Utah's Orrin Hatch
said he was surprised.
SEN.
ORRIN HATCH (R), Utah:
Jeff has been very loyal
to the president, and
I think he deserves
loyalty back.
JEFFREY BROWN: Democrats warned
that forcing out Sessions
would spark a new firestorm.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: Many Americans must
be wondering if the president
is trying to pry open the office
of attorney general to appoint
someone during the August
recess who will fire special
counsel Mueller and shut down
the Russia investigation.
JEFFREY BROWN: Even so, the
new White House communications
director, Anthony Scaramucci,
told conservative radio
host Hugh Hewitt that
the die may be cast.
HUGH HEWITT, Radio Talk
Show Host: It's clear
the president wants him
gone, isn't it, Anthony?
ANTHONY SCARAMUCCI, White House
Communications Director: I have
an enormous amount of respect
for the attorney general,
but I do know the
president pretty well.
And if there's this
level of tension in the
relationship, that that's
public, you're probably
right.
DONALD TRUMP: A Scout is
trustworthy, loyal - - we
could use some more loyalty.
I will tell you that.
JEFFREY BROWN: that level of
tension may have been in play
last night at the Boy Scouts'
National Jamboree.
The president brought
with him Cabinet members
and former Scouts Ryan
Zinke and Rick Perry,
but Eagle Scout Jeff Sessions
was nowhere to be seen.
A very high-level rift
now out in the open.
We get more from our own John
Yang, reporting from the White
House, and Sari Horwitz, who
covers the Justice Department
for The Washington Post.
John, you were at that
press conference today.
Where does this leave things
as far as Jeff Sessions
holding on to his job?
JOHN YANG: Well, you know,
the president rejected
the suggestion of a
reporter that he had been
leaving Jeff Sessions slowly
twisting in the wind, to
use an old Watergate phrase.
But, at the same time, as you
heard in your report, he said
he's got no timeline for when
he's going to make a decision.
It is clear that the president
sees a direct line from Jeff
Sessions' recusing himself
from the Russia investigation
to the appointment of
Robert Mueller as the
special counsel and
this investigation that
is dogging him still.
He told The Wall Street Journal
in an interview before that news
conference, if Jeff Sessions
didn't recuse himself, we
wouldn't even be talking
about this subject.
So it's clear he is still very
frustrated, very, in his words,
disappointed in his attorney
general.
JEFFREY BROWN: And,
Sari Horwitz, is there
anything more coming out
of the Justice Department?
Do we know how the attorney
general is taking all this?
SARI HORWITZ, The Washington
Post: Well, you know, it's just
been an extraordinary spectacle
playing out here in Washington.
And I have been at the Justice
Department all day, and all
indications are that Jeff
Sessions is not going to resign
and that he's moving forward
with his conservative agenda.
He, really more than any other
Cabinet member, has been putting
many place, moving quickly,
methodically to undo Holder,
Eric Holder, and Obama policies
at the Justice Department,
and he's moving forward on that.
He's compartmentalizing these
disparaging comments by the
president, which I'm being
told by people at the Justice
Department he's been doing since
he got in as attorney general
in February.
You know, he recused himself
in March, and this has
been going on since March.
JEFFREY BROWN: Sari, you and
your colleagues reported today
on discussions within the White
House about replacing
Jeff Sessions and how
that might happen.
So, those discussions
are taking place?
SARI HORWITZ: We heard they
had been taking place up until
now, but it's interesting.
Today, the conservative media,
Breitbart, Rush Limbaugh,
conservative senators came
out and said, we like the
policies Jeff Sessions
has been putting in place.
And actually, today, late
afternoon, Jeff Sessions
announced another new
policy, a conservative
policy, to crack down
on so-called sanctuary
cities and tie very
important federal grants
to local cities and
states, to tie those
grants to restrictions.
Like, if the states seem to be
harboring illegal immigrants,
undocumented immigrants, they
won't give them the money.
And what we're hearing is,
tomorrow or the next day, he's
going to be announcing that
the Justice Department is indeed
doing leak investigations.
JEFFREY BROWN: John, what do
you make of the support that
has been ever more vocal today,
in fact, for Jeff Sessions
from friends and allies?
JOHN YANG: Well, I think,
Jeff, it really is one of the
conundrums of this, is that
he is extremely popular among
Mr. Trump's base, largely
because of what Sari has just
been talking about, his
stand on illegal immigration,
on sanctuary cities.
Remember that he was actually
Steve Bannon's first choice
to be a presidential candidate
because of his
immigration policies.
But then it became clear
that he wasn't going to run.
So I think that -- and one
of the outside people that
President Trump talked to, has
been talking to about this
tells me that this is something
he did remind him, that Jeff
Sessions is very
popular among his base.
And you heard it from
a lot of particularly
Southern conservative
Democrats on the hill
today.
JEFFREY BROWN: And, John, we
did hear also at the press
conference the president again
raising the issue
of leaks today.
So, that remains
connected to all of this.
JOHN YANG: And you also have
to wonder if that's -- if
what he's talking about with
his tweets -- and, by the way,
you know, as Sari points out,
he is going after a member
of his own Cabinet as if he was
one of his primary opponents
in last year's election
- - if this constant
pressure on Sessions isn't
some sort of leverage to
get the Justice Department
to act on these leaks, which
have been his real bugaboo in
all these stories coming out
of the Russia investigation.
JEFFREY BROWN: Sari,
just in our last 30
seconds, what about that?
What about the leaks
connection to all this sort
of public furor we're hearing?
SARI HORWITZ: We know Trump is
angry about the leaks, and as
I said, we have been hearing
late afternoon at the Justice
Department that within the next
day or two Attorney General
Sessions is going to make an
announcement that the Justice
Department has been doing
leak investigations, maybe
showing his tougher side to the
president, and indicating that,
along with illegal immigration
and criminal justice policy,
he's also moving forward on
finding the leakers.
JEFFREY BROWN: Sari Horwitz of
The Washington Post, and John
Yang, our own, thank you both
very much.
SARI HORWITZ: Thank you.